Gherkin language

Scenario
Given : Pre-condition -- > The start stage, pre-requisite we need to define it in Given
When  : Actions we need to perform -- > Start the action/operation to perform
And   : Supporting tag (can be used with Given, When, Then)
Then  : Expected Results -- > to verify our task, we write the Acceptance Criteria under Then

Class 2
Recap -
What is framework?
    It is an organized structure of folders and packages with allows us write clean and maintainable code.

build management tool:
    maven

pom.xml is the main configuration file in maven project.

main -- it is used to write the code for development.
test -- it is used to write the code to test the application.
    -- java - for tech/coding we use Java directory.
    -- resources - for non tech/ non code we use resources.

Cucumber - it supports BDD (Behavior Driven Development
         - we use Gherkin language (plain English text) to write the scenarios.
         - it works with JUnit
         - Cucumber works on linking not on order

Scenario -- it is a test case
Given -- pre condition
When -- actions
And -- supporting tag
Then -- results

US 12345 -- Employee search

Scenario -- Search employee by ID
Given user is navigated to HRMS Application
When user enters valid admin credentials
And clicks on login button
And navigates to employee list page
When user enters valid employee ID
And clicks on search button
Then user is able to see employee information

Scenario -- Search employee by name
Given user is navigated to HRMS Application
When user enters valid admin credentials
And clicks on login button
And navigates to employee list page
When user enters valid employee name
And clicks on search button
Then user is able to see employee information

File when we write BDD scenarios is feature file.
This file has .feature extension
# write comment with # in .feature file

Abstraction
    Declaration -- method without body
    Definition -- method with body

STEP TO CREATE TEST CASE IN INTELLIJ:

1. create a folder named 'features' inside test/resources
2. create a folder named 'steps' inside test/java
3. inside features folder create  file 'EmployeeSearch.features'
4. inside .features file create the scenario by: Typing
  4.1  Feature: US-12345 - Search an employee in HRMS
         Scenario: Search an employee by id
           Given user is navigated to the HRMS application
           When user enters valid admin credentials
           And user clicks on login button
           And user is navigated to employee list page
           When user enters valid employee id
           And user clicks on search button
           Then user is able to see employee information
  4.2 save the file
  4.3 Hover mouse over the line with Scenario keyword and run it
  4.4 when results appear in console copy the generated method declarations
5. create a java class named 'EmployeeSearchSteps.java'
   5.1 paste the copied method declarations from console
   5.2 import the classes required in tags with red color
   5.3 MOVING to each steps' Java Method:
      5.3.1 right-click on the step
      5.3.2 choose 'go to'
      5.3.3 click on 'Declaration or Usages'
   ...  MORE COMING!!!


Class 3
Recap -
We use feature file to write out scenarios
-- search employee by ID
-- search employee by name

In feature file, we write scenarios using Gherkin language
-- Given, when, and, then, scenario, feature

After feature file, we need to create step definitions


Class 4
Recap --
    Common methods class in our framework is used to write all the methods, we will be using in majority of scenarios
(Code usability)

sendText method, click, etc

In constants class, we provide implicit wait, explicit wait values and test data path.

Page Object Model (POM) is design pattern.
According to page object model, we create page classes for all the screens available in the application.


Class 5
Recap --
Creating multiple steps classes for multiple feature files.
Page Object Model design pattern - separating the web pages as separate classes.
In common methods, we are calling page initializers method, this method is going to call the objects of page classes
which will call the constructor and these constructor will initialize all the Web Elements.

Create runners package:
    In runners package, create RunnerClass:

1. features we use to provide the path of all the feature files.
    features = "src/test/resources/features/",

2. glue is where we find implementations for Gherkin steps, we provide the path of package to get all the step definitions.
    glue = "steps",

3. dryRun we use to get the step definitions of undefined steps. if we set it to true, it will quickly scan all Gherkin
steps whether they are implemented or not. If we set it to true, it stops actual execution to execute scripts in real
time, we should set this value to false.
    dryRun = false,

4. It means the console output for cucumber test is having irrelevant information. When we set it to true, it simply
removes akk the irrelevant information.
    monochrome = true,

5. Use Tags @smoke, @sprint#,@test, @regression to identify test cases correctly for different testing methods.
    - Tags will identify the scenario based on the tag we provide in the feature files.
    - Use or if we need to execute scenarios from logical or keyword which will execute either of the scenario having
    the tag.
    - Use and if we need to execute scenarios from logical and keyword which will execute the scenarios having both the
    tags in it.
        tags = "@smoke and @sprint12"
@smoke, which implements quick tests on the scenarios with this tag. (in Smoke class and the tag will not change)
@regression, which implements complete test on the scenarios with this tag. (in Regression class and the tag will not change)
@test, under development (every other tag can go to RunnerClass because this class is for testing with
                            any tags that we can chang all the time)















